http://blog.csdn.net/linweig/article/details/5972312
http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/cn/linux/l-cpufreq-1/index.html




   Clock scaling allows you to change the clock speed of the CPUs on the
    fly. This is a nice method to save battery power, because the lower
            the clock speed, the less power the CPU consumes.
            
时钟调整允许即时调整CPUs的频率。这是一个省电的好办法，因为运行频率越低，电量损耗越少。

Contents:
目录
---------
1.  CPUFreq core and interfaces
1.  CPUFreq 核心和接口

2.  CPUFreq notifiers
2.  CPUFreq 申请

1. General Information
1. 概述
=======================

The CPUFreq core code is located in drivers/cpufreq/cpufreq.c. This
cpufreq code offers a standardized interface for the CPUFreq
architecture drivers (those pieces of code that do actual
frequency transitions), as well as to "notifiers". These are device
drivers or other part of the kernel that need to be informed of
policy changes (ex. thermal modules like ACPI) or of all
frequency changes (ex. timing code) or even need to force certain
speed limits (like LCD drivers on ARM architecture). Additionally, the
kernel "constant" loops_per_jiffy is updated on frequency changes
here.

CPUFreq的核心代码位于
drivers/cpufreq/cpufreq.c。这份代码为不同体系架构的CPUFreq驱动提供了一份标准接口，就像申请者。
有些设备驱动或内核的一些模块需要知道时钟频率的改变。另外，内核中有"常量"loops_per_jiffy，它的值会
随时钟频率而改变


Reference counting is done by cpufreq_get_cpu and cpufreq_put_cpu,
which make sure that the cpufreq processor driver is correctly
registered with the core, and will not be unloaded until
cpufreq_put_cpu is called.

cpufreq_get_cpu and cpufreq_put_cpu 做了引用计数工作，这确保cpufreq处理驱动被正确的注册和注销.

2. CPUFreq notifiers
====================

CPUFreq notifiers conform to the standard kernel notifier interface.
See linux/include/linux/notifier.h for details on notifiers.

CPUFreq 通知链符合标准内核的通知链接口。

There are two different CPUFreq notifiers - policy notifiers and
transition notifiers.

有两种不同的 CPUFreq 通知链: policy notifiers and transition notifiers.


2.1 CPUFreq policy notifiers
----------------------------

These are notified when a new policy is intended to be set. Each
CPUFreq policy notifier is called three times for a policy transition:

1.) During CPUFREQ_ADJUST all CPUFreq notifiers may change the limit if
    they see a need for this - may it be thermal considerations or
    hardware limitations.

2.) During CPUFREQ_INCOMPATIBLE only changes may be done in order to avoid
    hardware failure.

3.) And during CPUFREQ_NOTIFY all notifiers are informed of the new policy
   - if two hardware drivers failed to agree on a new policy before this
   stage, the incompatible hardware shall be shut down, and the user
   informed of this.

The phase is specified in the second argument to the notifier.

The third argument, a void *pointer, points to a struct cpufreq_policy
consisting of five values: cpu, min, max, policy and max_cpu_freq. min 
and max are the lower and upper frequencies (in kHz) of the new
policy, policy the new policy, cpu the number of the affected CPU; and 
max_cpu_freq the maximum supported CPU frequency. This value is given 
for informational purposes only.


2.2 CPUFreq transition notifiers
--------------------------------

These are notified twice when the CPUfreq driver switches the CPU core
frequency and this change has any external implications.

The second argument specifies the phase - CPUFREQ_PRECHANGE or
CPUFREQ_POSTCHANGE.

The third argument is a struct cpufreq_freqs with the following
values:
cpu	- number of the affected CPU
old	- old frequency
new	- new frequency

If the cpufreq core detects the frequency has changed while the system
was suspended, these notifiers are called with CPUFREQ_RESUMECHANGE as
second argument.





== CPUFreq on i.MX53 ==


CPU frequency scaling device driver

此驱动允许即时调整CPU时钟频率。一旦CPU频率改变，VDDGP也会调整成对应的电压值(参见mx53_wp.c)。

如果要调整的频率在 mx53_wp.c 中没有定义，则选择定义的频率数组中最接近的一个。

频率和电压的调整分别使用 "clock framework API" 和 "regulators API" 。

* 查看有哪些频率值可以调整(单位KHz)：
{{{
cat /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/stats/time_in_state
  }}}
第一列是可以调整的频率值
第二列是cpu处在该频率值的时间
  
* 调整频率值(调整的频率是上面命令查看出来的)：
{{{
echo 800000 > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_setspeed
  }}}
  
* 查看最大频率
{{{
cat /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_max_freq
  }}}
  
* 查看当前频率
{{{
cat /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/cpuinfo_cur_freq
  }}}
  


== 源码分析 ==

drivers/cpufreq/cpufreq.c
arch/arm/plat-mxc/cpufreq.c


{{{
static int __init mxc_cpufreq_init(void)
{
	return cpufreq_register_driver(&mxc_driver);
}
}}}
向 cpufreq 子系统注册 mxc 架构的cpufreq驱动结构 *struct cpufreq_driver*


